In this lesson we will learn about h TMLC forms.
Forms are used to receive user input and then pass that data along to a server.
Forms are typically one of the more interactive parts of a web page.
So for example if you visit a new Web site the Web site may encourage you to create an account and when
you create that account you will likely have to fill out a form and that will include things perhaps
like your first name or your last name or any other fields where you have to either input text or make
a choice between different options and there is usually some sort of Submit button that finalizes your
input and send the data off to a server somewhere.
Now the entire concept of submitting and processing that data at a server level is completely outside
the scope of this course.
However learning how to create the front facing or front end or user experience side of the forms is
completely within the scope of this course.
So in this lesson we will review the HTML codes required to create a basic form where users can enter
different data into different fields.
And we're going to start from scratch.
So we were right all of the code together.
Let's get started.
Here we are in a text editor with a new blank page we can see the body element is completely empty.
So if I view this page in a web browser it is a perfectly empty page.
So let's begin creating form the first element is very intuitively named form.
And within this element is where we include additional code to construct the actual form.
So the first thing that we will do is create a very basic text input field the element that we will
use to achieve.
This is simply named input and it has an attribute named type and then we can include a value with this
attribute to specify what type of input this is.
So we will start with the most basic text.
So if I save and refresh in my web browser we can see that we now have an input field.
So if I click on this I can then begin typing on my keyboard.
However it's probably not a good idea to begin typing anything.
If this field isn't labeled so our users have no idea what is supposed to be entered into this field
.
So we as HTL authors need to label our inputs or label our fields.
So there's an element named label which can do just that.
Let's imagine that we as the authors of this form want our first Input to receive user's first name
what within the label element we can simply type first name colon and we need to go one step further
.
We need a way to associate this label with this input.
So visually if I save and refresh we can see that in the web browser the label is sitting next to the
input but we need a way from a code perspective to associate the label with the input.
I should be able to click on the label and the web browser should automatically move my cursor to the
field.
So to achieve that we can give the label element an attribute of four.
Now the value of this we will type first name.
Now this is a string that I just invented.
It could have been anything but we need to apply this same name as an ID for the input.
So for example on the input element I will add an attribute of ID and the value will be first name.
It will be the same exact string as we entered in the four attribute for the label.
So now that these are matching face saving refresh in my web browser and if I click or tap on the label
for the field my web browser knows to associate the label with the input and it automatically moves
my cursor into the field so I can begin typing.
Practice makes perfect.
So let's create a second field.
So that means a second input label pair for last name.
In our code we'll create a new input.
It will also be of the text type and we will create a label to be associated with this input last name
.
Now we want to be sure to give this label element the four attributes.
Again this is a text string and we can invent anything we want as long as it doesn't have spaces in
it.
So I will type last name with a capital and for name and then we want to include this matching string
on the input element in the id attribute last name.
If I save and refresh you can see we have a second field here last name.
And if I click on the label it automatically moves the cursor so we can begin typing in the field.
Now that we have successfully created to label input pairs I want to point something out.
While it's true that we do always want an input to have a label associated with it.
There is more than one way to achieve that.
So the first method that we saw is to use the 4 and Id attributes and to give them a matching name.
However an alternative way to associate the input with the label is to simply move the input to sit
within the label element.
So you can rely on your team structure to associate the two elements.
So if I save and refresh and click on the first name label you can see that we still have the behavior
that moves our typing cursor into the field.
However even though nesting the input inside the label works in most web browsers it still is not well-suited
for every screen reading device out there.
So that means in terms of keeping our forms as accessible as possible I still strongly recommend that
you use the for an ID attributes to create your label input pairs.
Having said that I did want you to be aware of this label input nesting method.
Moving on let's add a submit button to the form that users can click or tap on to indicate that they
have finished filling out the form.
Down here we will create an input and we will give it a type of submit.
We will also add an attribute of value and this is where we can control what the button should say so
we could have this say submit or go or save.
Let's just start with submit.
So if I save and refresh we can see that there is a button that users can click or tap when they have
completed filling out the form.
Now speaking of submitting the form we mentioned earlier in the lesson that it's outside the scope of
this course to do any of the processing of the data like saving it to a database.
That would require a programming language which HTML is not so h DML simply constructs the user experience
the user interface.
The front end.
However there is one final attribute that we need to add to each of our inputs to make the form accessible
to programming languages so they can actually do something useful with the data and what we need to
do is add an attribute of name to each of our inputs.
So this is the input for the first name field so I will give this a name of first name.
You really don't want to include spaces in the name so I'm going to have this all one word and just
capitalize and name and our input for last name.
We will do the same thing.
We will give it an attribute of name and then the value we will say is the last name.
We do not need to add a name attribute to our submit button.
We only need to add the name attribute to input fields where users are making a choice or entering text
with our name attribute in place.
Our first basic form is complete.
In our next lesson we will learn that there is much more to forms than simple text input types.
See you in the next lesson